How to survive outside of the state
Advanced privacy, sovereignty and
censorship-resistance techniques
which work today
The current system is broken
The state has total control over
the white market economy
The state's largest mechanism
for surveillance and censorship
is the government ID system,
also known as KYC
The state forces employers, landlords
doctors, banks, ISPs, cell providers
mailmen and even gyms and libraries
to require government ID
Without a passport or driver's license
it becomes difficult to find
a job or a place to live
Not only does this put innocent people
under constant state surveillance
it also excludes approximately
1 billion people worldwide
from the economy
KYC isn't only about
"handing over your data"
If that would be the case
it would be enough to
simply say your name
or fill out a form
Instead
only people with a
state-assigned document
are permitted to take part
The state's monopoly on identity
ignores reality, in favor of
gatekept databases
and centralized control
Fortunately, agorism
bypasses the state's systems
and allows everyone to take part in
free and fair markets
With agorism, you can find work
rent apartments, receive healthcare
and more
no government ID
or state permit required
One problem with
the state's monopoly on identity
is surveillance
which stretches far beyond
the tracking and
surveillance capitalism
of Big Tech
Via government ID systems
the state tracks innocent people
from birth certificate
to death certificate
It compiles databases of
names, birth dates, photos
home addresses, jobs, bank balances
medical records and more
Which it shares with third parties
without the individual's
knowledge or consent
This level of data collection
is unnecessary
For example
Buying bread or a bus ticket
with cash doesn't require a name
Medical records should stay between
the doctor and patient
Many people only share
their home address
with close friends and family
Government ID requirements
can also put people in danger
such as people who
are escaping from abuse
or activists who are
using a pseudonym
for safety reasons
What is worse than surveillance
is total censorship
The state actively refuses
to print ID for millions of people
which shuts them out of
the mainstream economy
and makes it difficult to survive
If your country of birth or residence
refuses to print a birth certificate
passport or national ID card for you
there is nowhere to go
and no appeals
Even if you have witnesses
are a skilled worker
can prove your identity
via non-government records
or are willing to give fingerprints
there is no way to convince the state
to enter you into its database
In most cases
this problem starts at birth
or early adulthood
and the individual has
done nothing wrong
NGOs like Red Cross and United Nations
are aware of the exclusion
and discrimination
caused by government ID systems
but they are unable to
convince the state
nor offer alternative IDs
Jurisdictional arbitrage
like Flag Theory
requires an already existing ID
Even the Californian driver's license
for undocumented people
requires an existing international passport
or ID card from another country
Old strategies like paper tripping
no longer work
It's difficult to find so-called
corrupt bureaucrats
who would print ID for you
under-the-table
In many countries
it's difficult to find fake ID vendors
and if you can find one
it may not work to
open a bank account
or find a job
Ignored, blamed and even
criminalized by the state
millions of people are left
on the edge of society
without recourse and
with great difficulty to
even earn money or
find a place to live
Authoritarianism is increasing globally
Every year
more services require government ID
shutting people without ID
or who need privacy or pseudonymity
further out of the economy
During corona statism
vaccine passports required
not only an untested vaccine
but also an existing government ID
In some countries
cops and soldiers patrolled
the streets during lockdowns
and demanded ID from innocent people
As is clear to most people
this wasn't about health,
but about control
Digital IDs and CBDCs
will make it worse
The claim that digital IDs
will help unbanked people
is a lie that uses vulnerable
people as an excuse
while continuing to deny
them access to the economy
Just like the current system
access to Digital IDs and CBDCs
will require an existing entry
in the state's database
Giving your name and fingerprints
will not be enough
if you weren't already
registered at birth
If the state really wanted
to promote inclusion
it would remove the
barriers to obtaining ID
or remove ID requirements entirely
There is nothing blocking
the state from this
The exclusion is intentional
and the system is working as designed
If the goal was indeed
mass surveillance
or even profiteering from
money printing and taxation
the state would have no issue with
entering people into its database
In reality
the state's pathological desire to
bully, deprive and ostracize
is stronger than its desire
to simply surveil and profit
The pervasiveness of digital ID
will only make survival more difficult
for marginalized people
For example
if grocery stores only
accept CBDCs to buy food
and access to public transit
requires Digital ID
In addition
even people who currently
have access to ID
are at risk of exclusion from
the upcoming Digital ID system
Corporate deplatforming
is already a huge issue
and a centralized
single point of failure
like CBDCs will make this worse
Anyone who resists
could easily be cut off
from the statist white market
Agorism is already a necessity
for many people today
and will become vital for many more
as state authoritarianism increases
As you can see
government ID is nothing more
than an artificial system
designed to control,
surveil and dehumanize
It should not be possible to
exclude an innocent person
from the entire economy
and even push them to homelessness
just because a singular state bureaucrat
doesn't want to print
a document for them
Everyone has a name
appearance, background
and personhood
You should not need
the state's permission
in order to have a name
or to exist
KYC wasn't around forever
Even a few years ago
it was easy to rent an apartment
find work, send a money transfer
or buy a sim card
just by filling out a form
and paying
This authoritarian power grab
is new and unnecessary
Things worked perfectly fine before
Peer-to-peer trust methods
are more inclusive, humane
and work better
This can be as simple as
saying your name
using a PIN to pickup mail
a vouch or portfolio to get a job
or a cash deposit for a rental
Instead of relying on
state permission
agorist markets provide a
much-needed alternative method
to find work, housing,
healthcare and more
Agorism has worked since decades
including in authoritarian regimes
where it is needed the most
Agorist markets are also known as
gray and black markets
the informal economy
the underground
and Second Realms
There are many reasons to
bypass state regulations
when doing business
such as saving time and money
avoiding censorship or restrictions
protecting your privacy
or ideological
or humanitarian reasons
Agorism focuses on
peer-to-peer transactions
small businesses and communities
No need for a global revolution
or corporate mass adoption
If you can get what you need
from agorist markets
you don't need to worry about
what the mainstream market is doing
Found an apartment for cash?
That's winning
Earn crypto online?
Agorism is there for
those who need it
and every transaction
outside of the state is a win
Agorism helps you to
build independence
from the games of the state,
large corporations and geopolitics
which the individual can't influence
and instead focuses on local
and global small businesses
and communities
where the individual's voice counts
Good people disobey unjust laws
A hotel owner who doesn't require ID
can save someone from homelessness
or help them to escape from abuse
An agorist doctor can save lives
A seller of anonymous sim cards
can help people to keep
in touch with loved ones
or help an activist to
fight for human rights
There are multiple ways to
run an agorist business
The Gray Man strategy is when
a state-registered
white market business
offers agorist services
under-the-table
to trusted customers
Some examples
A phone repair store sells
anonymous sim cards
on request
A hotel rents out rooms
without ID
to people in need
such as victims of abuse
or undocumented people
A restaurant hires a chef
for cash under-the-table
so that they can pay rent
A doctor agrees to treat an
out-of-pocket patient without ID
Proxy merchants are
individuals or businesses
that have access to ID
and allow people to use
their company as a proxy
to access services anonymously
An example is
a friend who sends a
bank transfer for you
and you repay them in Bitcoin
Your roommate deals with the
rental contract on your behalf
and you pay rent to them in cash
A local business allows you
to pickup mail there
A company registers sim cards
under their name
and resells them anonymously
Second Realm businesses
operate entirely
outside of the state
without government ID
or a registered company
Such as remote freelancing
for Bitcoin
or lawncare for cash
Importing medicine from countries
that don't require prescriptions
Selling your old car in Craigslist
Renting out your apartment for cash
while you are traveling
Now some practical examples
covering food, finances, jobs
housing, healthcare, energy
logistics, communications, education
community and how you
can get started today
Starting with food
It's still possible to buy
food with cash
in mainstream grocery stores
Even when corona restrictions
closed most other stores
or demanded contactless payments
such as credit cards
and banking apps
(which all require ID)
most grocery stores stayed open
didn't require vaccine passports
and continued to accept cash
However, it's still important
to grow independence
from large corporations
and support small businesses
and local farms
Whether that's growing your own food
and getting water from a well
on a homestead
or buying from farmers markets
There are even farmers who
accept Bitcoin and Monero
such as Gratuitas coffee
and Beef Initiative
In the future
if the state would force
mainstream grocery stores
to only accept CBDCs
local grocery stores who
accept cash or crypto
would become vital
for access to food
In addition
proxy merchants who
have access to CBDCs
could go shopping for
unbanked people
Without government ID
it's impossible to open
a bank account
or get a credit card
It wasn't always like this
It used to be possible to
open a Paypal account
buy a Visa gift card
or send a Western Union transfer
without ID
Now, you can't even send
20 dollars to a friend
if you don't have a
passport or driver's license
Thankfully, cash still works
for local in person transactions
and some online stores still
accept cash on delivery
or cash by mail
Some online stores
accept gift cards
that you can buy with cash
from local stores
In some countries like the US
anonymous Visa gift cards
are still available
Physical gold and silver
work well as savings
Proxy merchants can
send bank transfers
pay bills or purchase
products on your behalf
and you pay them
in cash or crypto
The most important tool
for financial freedom
is cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin and Monero make it possible
to send and receive money
worldwide, without
government ID or a bank account
Perfect for online shopping
brick-and-mortar stores
remittances
jobs, fundraising, tips
savings and more
Many individuals and businesses
are building Bitcoin and Monero
circular economies
which aim to make it possible
to live fully on crypto
including food, jobs, housing,
healthcare and travel
In order to pay for food and rent
you need a way to earn money
Sadly the state also has a monopoly
over the mainstream job market
Despite your skills
work ethic and effort
if you don't have ID
most employers won't even
consider to hire you
Fortunately
there are many agorist employers
who value meritocracy
and equal opportunities
If you can do the job,
they are happy to hire you
Some examples are
under-the-table jobs for cash
for example
in construction, farming,
factory work, restaurants
or selling products
for cash in local markets
Additionally
there's remote work
for cryptocurrencies
including software development
graphic design, music,
writing and translation
It's possible to find
remote work for crypto
in KYC-free freelancing platforms
like Microlancer
and Freelance For Coins
as well as in peer-to-peer
marketplaces
like Bitejo and Bitcoin P2P
Marketplace in Telegram
Co-ops and collectives
also offer agorist jobs
For example
a bicycle repair co-op
or a cafe collective
DAOs are similar to co-ops
and can be used for projects,
jobs, fundraising and more
For agorist DAOs, check Dark Fi
Shelter is important
Protection from the elements
a place to sleep
relax, feel safe, and call home
But even a necessity like this
is gatekept behind
government ID KYC
Peer-to-peer rentals help people to
access shelter outside of the state
Whether it's renting for cash
from a guy in Craigslist
living with roommates who deal
with the contract on your behalf
finding an AirBnB host
who doesn't require ID
or joining an intentional community
like a housing project
or an eco village
Proxy merchants could help people
to rent white market apartments
while a crypto-friendly AirBnB
could help people to rent short-term
and long-term accommodation
for Bitcoin or Monero
Intentional communities
like eco villages
and Bitcoin Citadels
could provide an autonomous space
where people could live,
work and thrive
outside of state control
Even if you pay with cash
and write your contact details
and medical history on the form
doctors may refuse to
treat you without ID
Not only is this against
the Hippocratic Oath
it also puts people in danger
and unable to seek healthcare
Fortunately
it's still possible to find doctors
who don't require ID
via word-of-mouth
or support groups
Generally this requires
out-of-pocket payment
but there are also some
charitable health clinics
funded by donations
where people in need can receive
free or low cost treatment
A Bitcoin health insurance company
and network of
Bitcoin-friendly doctors
could help people to access
healthcare for an affordable price
as well as print
health insurance cards
that people can use to visit
doctors without government ID
A Bitcoin GoFundMe alternative
could also help individuals
and charities
to raise money for medical expenses
It's also possible to
import medicine from countries
that don't require prescriptions
such as buying from an
international online pharmacy
This helps people to
access the medicine
that they need to survive
In addition
biohackers are making it easier
to DIY your own healthcare
Four Thieves Vinegar
is working on ways
to synthesize medicines from
freely purchasable re-agents
and advances are being made
in robotic surgery and CRISPR
Often, electricity and heating
is included in rentals
and the landlord makes the contract
with the energy company
on your behalf
However, it's useful to
build energy sovereignty
especially in times of
increasing prices
or even risks of blackouts
Off-grid solar panels
and batteries
can help you achieve
energy sovereignty
Generate electricity from sunlight
even on a cloudy winter day
and store it in batteries
for later usage
Even an emergency hand crank
or pedal generator
could help you to
recharge your phone
or listen to the radio
during a blackout
Gas generators and
propane heaters
can also give you
independence from the grid
Although there is still dependence on
oligarchs and national supply lines
you can buy gas in advance
and use it during a blackout
when the grid is
inaccessible or rationed
In the future
community-run energy grids
and improvements in renewables
and battery tech
could make it easier
to live independently
from the state's energy grid
It can be difficult
to receive mail without ID
If you are living in an
informal apartment rental
it may not be possible
to receive mail there
and most PO box
services require ID
Depending on where you live
there may be courier-operated
parcel lockers
that only require a PIN
that you receive by SMS
or general delivery may be
possible with a passphrase
Some taxi apps offer
delivery services
and accept cash
which works for local deliveries
In some cases
you could ask the taxi driver
to pickup the package
from the post office
on your behalf
It's also possible to
simply ask a friend
or local business
if they could receive
the package for you
In the future
a KYC-free PO box network
could help people to receive mail
In this concept
local businesses could
sign up as PO box providers
and set their own fees and terms
Then customers could
send mail to this address
and pick it up with a passphrase
Access to the internet
is also gatekept behind
government ID
Most home internet
providers require ID
although in some rentals
the landlord deals with
the contract on your behalf
In many countries
even prepaid sim cards require ID
but some stores still sell anonymous
sim cards under-the-table
It's possible to access the internet
by importing a sim card from a
country that doesn't require ID
such as the US or UK
using an anonymous e-sim
like Silent Link
or making use of
public wifi networks
With more proxy merchants
and public wifi providers
uncensored access to the internet
would be possible for everyone
Access to education and training
is also censored by the state
Universities, trade schools
and libraries
require government ID,
even if you pay in cash
Thankfully
there are accessible ways
to learn new skills
such as with online education
and local hackerspaces
and meetups
Youtube videos, online courses,
forums
and open source software
help people to learn
about any topic online
including software development,
languages, music
writing and DIY
In addition
meetups, hackerspaces
and anarchist libraries
make it possible to learn
a variety of practical skills
such as electronics,
carpentry, gardening
cooking, sports or
even biohacking
The network of online classes
and in person community spaces
is growing
and it's getting easier
to learn new things
improve your skills
and meet new people
outside of the state's
monopoly on education
There are already some agorist,
libertarian and crypto communities
for example in Twitter, Telegram,
Reddit and Matrix
as well as in person
meetups and conferences
Bitcoin and Monero
peer-to-peer marketplaces
like Bitejo and Bitcoin P2P
Marketplace in Telegram
help you to build
crypto circular economies
and buy and sell
products and services
outside of the state
Spread the word about agorism
and help to build
fair and free markets
that everyone can participate in
How to get started?
Find and use services that
don't require government ID
Consider to accept
crypto in your business
for example via BTCPayServer
or join a crypto
peer-to-peer marketplace
Offer proxy merchant
services if possible
Build parallel economies that
operate outside of the state
and are future-proof against
the dangers of CBDCs
digital IDs and increasing
state authoritarianism
Join millions of people worldwide
who participate in the
informal economy every day
For more information, check out
"An Agorist Primer" by SEK3
"Second Realm: Book on Strategy"
by Smuggler & XYZ
Vonu Podcast
Agorism Blog
and learn about
Bitcoin or Monero